Direct Payment SEP (#592)
stellar/stellar-protocol: ecosystem/sep-direct-payment.md

## Preamble

```
SEP: 00XX
Title: Fiat-To-Fiat payments
Author: SDF
Status: Draft
Created: 2020-04-07
Updated: 2020-04-07
Version 1.0.0
```

## Simple Summary

> This SEP defines a protocol for enabling fiat to fiat payments between two real world accounts, facilitated by two different anchors.

Reviewer: Are there other "real world accounts" other than bank accounts? If not I'd replace the "real world" description to "bank".

Author: cash out at a place like moneygram for example

Reviewer: Ok good point, how about "non-stellar account"? What I'm trying to get at is we should probably not reinforce the idea that cryptocurrency isn't "real money" by including it in our SEPs.

Reviewer 2: How about:
```suggestion
This SEP defines a protocol for enabling fiat to fiat payments between two financial accounts that exist outside of the Stellar network. The payments are facilitated by two anchors.
```

## Prerequisites

* An anchor must define the location of their `DIRECT_PAYMENT_SERVER` in their [`stellar.toml`](sep-0001.md). Anchors will find each others servers by pulling this TOML file from their home domains.
* Anchors will create bi-lateral agreements to interoperate with each other.  This differs from other protocols in that there is no concept of 'discoverability'.  Anchors should keep a mapping of their partnerships in different regions to their home domains.
* Each anchor registers a stellar key with each counterparty anchor they interact with in order to identify themselves via [SEP-10 Web Authentication](sep-0010.md).

## Authentication

Anchors should support [SEP-10](sep-0010.md) web authentication to ensure the counterparty they're interoperating with is actually who they say they are.  Clients must submit the JWT obtained via the SEP-10 authentication flow to all API endpoints.

The JWT should be included in all requests as request header:
```
Authorization: Bearer <JWT>
```

Any API request the fails to meet proper authentication should return a 403 forbidden response with the error payload:

```
{

>   "type": "authentication_required"

Reviewer: Is there a reason we need this specific message? If we change the endpoints below to return 400 instead of 403 on a bad request, then a 403 can indicate bad authentication.

1. Once all needed information is provided and the receiving anchor is ready to complete this transaction, the `POST /send` call will return a `200` status along with information needed to complete the transaction over the stellar network.
1. The sending anchor should collect the fiat from the sending client, and perform the specified stellar transaction to send the money to the receiving anchor.  This is usually a path payment, but can be done with a regular payment as well, so long as the receiving anchor gets the token they expect.
1. Once the stellar transaction is completed, the receiving anchor should deposit the money in the receivers bank account.
1. The sending anchor can query the status of this transaction via the [`/transaction`](#transaction) endpoint, and should communicate updates to the sending client as that progresses.

## API Endpoints

* [`GET /info`](#info): required
* [`POST /send`](#send): required
* [`GET /transactions`](#transaction-history): required

> * [`GET /transaction`](#single-historical-transaction): required

Author: Do we need the `/transactions` endpoint?  It was mostly for creating UIs for wallets and feels unnecessary here

### Info
#### Request

```
GET DIRECT_PAYMENT_SERVER/info
```

Allows an anchor to communicate basic info about what currencies their `DIRECT_PAYMENT_SERVER` supports receiving from partner anchors.

Request parameters:

Name | Type | Description
-----|------|------------
`lang` | string | (optional) Defaults to `en`. Language code specified using [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639-1). `description` fields in the response should be in this language.

#### Response

The response should be a JSON object like:

```json
{
   "receive":{
      "USD":{
         "enabled":true,
         "fee_fixed":5,
         "fee_percent":1,
         "min_amount":0.1,
         "max_amount":1000,

>          "fields":{

Reviewer: If all fields listed are from a SEP, there's no reason to have a description for each field. Anchors can keep a list of descriptions in their native language instead of relying on the other anchor to return a translation of the their own description. 

Then, the value for `sender`, `receiver`, and `transaction` could be a list of SEP9 field names.

Author: I don't think we can require that they need to be from a SEP.  Anchors can request whatever they want.

            "sender":{

>                "first_name":"The sender's first name",

Author: Does it make sense to split up 'fields' like this?  If we don't, we can't disambiguate between the SEP-9 first_name field for receiver vs sender.  This allows us to keep using SEP-9 fields without having to change to `sender_first_name` and `receiver_first_name`

Reviewer: I think it makes sense.

Reviewer: I think it makes sense.

Reviewer 3: Hi Guys , 
I am Claudiu (from FinClusive) . 
Do you guys plan to add to SEP-9 also the fields for entities ? I think right now SEP-9 targets only individuals. 
Or this should be each anchor responsibility to create an entity fields definition and agree it with any anchor they are integrating with ?

Author: I'd like to either augment SEP-9 or define them in this SEP, I really don't want to make parties have to come to NxN agreements on field names

               "last_name":"The sender's last name"
            },

>             "receiver":{

Reviewer 3: In the receiver section ca we add custom fields ? 
Each of our clients are identified by a unique value called FinClusiveID , for us it is enough for the sending anchor to pass this into the sent payment request in the receiver section .

Author: Yeah that is no problem you can request whatever you want (as long as the sending anchor knows how to provide it)

               "first_name":"The receiver's first name",
               "last_name":"The receiver's last name",
               "email_address":"The receiver's email address"
            },

>             "transaction":{

Reviewer 3: For transaction fields , can we (as an anchor) add custom fields and agree them with the anchors we are integrating with ?  
Let me give you and example : 
When we (FinClusive) do ledgering we have for some of our clients virtual accounts ( which do no heave a real bank account behind) and we plan for this type of clients to instruct them to share their account id  as they don't have an account number or routing number.

Author: yep, no problem

>                "routing_number":{

Reviewer: Are the fields here from a SEP? I don't see it in SEP-9, but I see `bank_number`. Ideally anchors would only use fields from a SEP, otherwise Anchor A could list `routing_number` but Anchor B could list `routing_num` and the sending Anchor C would have to know how to handle both, which would get really messy quickly.

Author: There's no SEP for transfer information but we can either create one, or add such fields in this SEP

                  "description":"routing number of the destination bank account"
               },
               "account_number":{
                  "description":"bank account number of the destination"
               },

>                "type":{

Reviewer 3: is this section for the sending anchor or for receiving anchor ? 
Is this a required section ?

Author: This section being "type"?  No, all of these fields are just an example of what you could put in here. The only requirement is that there is a sender, receiver, and transaction section.  The fields you put in them are totally up to you.

                  "description":"type of deposit to make",
                  "choices":[
                     "SEPA",
                     "SWIFT"
                  ]
               }
            }
         }
      }
   }
}
```

The JSON object contains an entry for each asset that the anchor supports for receiving and completing a direct payment.

#### For each asset available for receiving, response contains:

* `min_amount`: Optional minimum amount. No limit if not specified.
* `max_amount`: Optional maximum amount. No limit if not specified.
* `fee_fixed`: Optional fixed (flat) fee for deposit. In units of the received asset. Leave blank if there is no fee or the fee schedule is complex.

> * `fee_percent`: Optional percentage fee for deposit. In percentage points. Leave blank if there is no fee or the fee schedule is complex.

Reviewer: If the fee schedule is complex, how is it communicated?

Author: I think we can not worry about it, and just find out the final fee once the transaction is created (but before any money is sent).  This was more important for interactive flow stuff because it makes a nicer UX to see it up front but i think in this case, especially since both ends might take a cut, there's no need to add a /fee endpoint back yet. 

Honestly we might even remove these fee values.

* `fields` object as explained below.

The `fields` object allows an anchor to describe fields that must be passed into `POST /send`. It should include any KYC fields required for the sender or receiver, account information, and anything else required by the receiving anchor in order to complete a transaction.  Fields are broken out by `sender`, `receiver`, and `transaction`.  `sender` and `receiver` contain KYC requests of values from SEP-9 while `transacton` contains transaction specific information requested.

Each `fields` sub-object contains a key for each field name and an object with the following fields as the value:

* `description`: description of field to show to user.

> * `choices`: list of possible values for the field.

Author: I removed the ability to mark fields as 'optional'.  Do you think optional fields are useful?

Reviewer: I'd keep it if unless we're sure it wouldn't be useful.

Reviewer: I'd keep it if unless we're sure it wouldn't be useful.

`require_receiver_info` | array | A list of [SEP-9](sep-0009.md) values requested for the receiving client
`amount` | number | Amount of payment in destination currency
`fields` | object | A key-pair object containing the values requested by the receiving anchor in their `/info` endpoint
`lang` | string | (optional) Defaults to `en`. Language code specified using [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639-1).  Any human readable error codes or field descriptions will be returned in this language.

#### Responses

##### Success (200 ok)
This is the successful case where a receiving anchor confirms that they can fulfill this payment as described. The response body should be a JSON object with the following values

Name | Type | Description
-----|------|------------
`id` | string | Persistent identifier to check the status of this payment
`stellar_account_id` | string | Stellar account to send payment to
`stellar_memo_type` | string | Type of memo to attach to the stellar payment `(text | hash | id)`
`stellar_memo` | string | The memo to attach to the stellar payment
`receiver_info` | object | Key-value pairs of the information the sender requested via `require_receiver_info`

> 

Reviewer 3: I am curios here if there is a way for the receiving anchor to generate the stellar transaction id which should be used by the sending anchor when publish the transaction with the payment on the Stellar Network?
I am asking this because we plan to tie our AML checks on a Stellar Payment to a Stellar transaction id.

Author: There's no way to pre-generate a stellar tx id, but what you're describing is the reason for the stellar_memo field.  You can tie your AML checks or whatever you want to the stellar transaction that has the pre-generated memo.

> ##### Customer Info Needed (403 forbidden)

Reviewer: I don't think 403 is appropriate here, 400 seems like the natural fit.

Author: i was actually really confused by what i thought 403 meant.  
http://w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616%20-sec10.html
"The server understood the request, but is refusing to fulfill it. Authorization will not help and the request SHOULD NOT be repeated"

My understanding was that 403 meant 'needs authorization' but now this says its not.  

400 says 
"The request could not be understood by the server due to malformed syntax"
which doesn't make sense here for sure

Reviewer: That link gave me a 404, but check out the [spec](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-6.5.1)

I would consider missing arguments a malformed request.

Reviewer 4: I agree that 400 makes a bit more sense here (it's also a kitchen sink for any client side error): 
>   The 400 (Bad Request) status code indicates that the server cannot or
   **will not process the request due to something that is perceived to be
   a client error** (e.g., malformed request syntax, invalid request
   message framing, or deceptive request routing).

Reviewer 2: According to the RFCs I think 403 works, but practically it will be confusing because the first thing many think of when we see that error code is credentials, even if the specs don't require it to be related to credentials. Note, there's also two definitions of 403 in two different RFCs, which I think contributes to the confusion around when to use it. [RFC7231](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-6.5.3) obsoleted [RFC2616](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-10.4.4).

We could also consider 422. 400 was defined to mean the request was incorrect in and of itself (e.g. format, wrong field, missing field, wrong type in a field, etc), and 422 [was added for WebDAV](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4918#section-11.2) and is referenced in at least one other [non-WebDAV RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5789#section-2.2) and indicates there is something semantically incorrect with sending that request at this time. I think this more accurately reflects the issue here since the request parses correctly.

I think it's easy to argue that the request is bad because it's invalid given the state of the account since it is missing information, but the downside with using a 400 is a developer might jump to "what did I put wrong in this request" rather than "what about the state of the account is incomplete."

Stripe uses 402. GitHub uses 422.

I think 400 is ok. There might be some benefits to distinguishing the case with 422, but that might just replace one type of confusion with a different kind of confusion so I don't think it is a clear win.

Reviewer: I don't think missing key-value pairs in the `"fields"` object is a valid use of 422, since the request is syntactically incorrect, not semantically incorrect. 

A good example for when 422 would make a lot of sense is where SEP-6 currently uses [403 Customer Info Needed](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/ecosystem/sep-0006.md#2-customer-information-needed-non-interactive). This case differs from the one we're discussing (even though they share the same name) because in SEP-6 the `"fields"` returned in the 403 response need to be sent to a _different endpoint_, namely [SEP-12's `/customer`](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/ecosystem/sep-0012.md#customer-put). 422 should be used in this case because the SEP-6 request was valid but couldn't be processed without a prior request to `/customer`, i.e. the semantics are incorrect.

Author: Moved to 400

In the case where the sending anchor didn't provide all the information requested in `/info`, or if the transacton requires extra information, the request should fail with a 403 status code and the following body in JSON format.  The sender should then retry the entire request including all the previously sent fields plus the fields described in the response.

Name | Type | Description
-----|------|------------
`error`| string | `customer_info_needed`

> `fields` | object | A key-value pair of missing fields in the same format as fields described in [`/info`](#info)

Reviewer: `fields` could also just be a list of SEP9 field names.

> ##### Error (403 Forbidden)

Reviewer: Same here.

1. The sending anchor should collect the fiat from the sending client, and perform the specified stellar transaction to send the money to the receiving anchor.  This is usually a path payment, but can be done with a regular payment as well, so long as the receiving anchor gets the token they expect.
1. Once the stellar transaction is completed, the receiving anchor should deposit the money in the receivers bank account.
1. If the receiver finds out during a bank deposit that some of the receivers information is incorrect, the transaction should be placed in the `pending_info_update` status so the sender can correct it.
1. The sending anchor can query the status of this transaction via the [`/transaction`](#transaction) endpoint, and should communicate updates to the sending client as that progresses.  If the status is `pending_info_update` it should request that info from the sending client and provide it to the receiving anchor via the [`/update`](#update) endpoint.
1. Once the [`/transaction`](#transaction) endpoint returns a `completed` status the transaction has been completed.

## API Endpoints

* [`GET /info`](#info)
* [`POST /send`](#send)

> * [`GET /transaction`](#single-historical-transaction)

Reviewer 5: /transaction and /update links are broken

Author: fixed

      "amount_out": "18.24",
      "amount_fee": "0.1",
      "started_at": "2017-03-20T17:05:32Z"
    }
}
```

```json
{
  "transaction": {
      "id": "82fhs729f63dh0v4",
      "status": "pending_info_update",
      "status_eta": 3600,
      "external_transaction_id": "ABCDEFG1234567890",
      "amount_in": "18.34",
      "amount_out": "18.24",
      "amount_fee": "0.1",
      "started_at": "2017-03-20T17:05:32Z",
      "required_info_message": "The bank reported an incorrect name for the receiver, please ensure the name matches legal documents",
      "required_info_fields": {
         "receiver": {
            "first_name":"The receiver's first name",
            "last_name":"The receiver's last name"
         }
      }
    }
}
```

If the transaction cannot be found, the endpoint should return a `404 NOT FOUND` result.

#### Pending info update

In certain cases the receiver might need to request updated information, for example if the bank tells them that the provided receiver name is incorrect, or missing a middle initial.  In this case, the transaction should go into the `pending_info_update` state until the sender provides updates.

### Update

> The `/update` endpoint allows for updating certain pieces of information that need to be corrected.  For example a bank may reject a deposit because a name is mis-spelled, or a middle initial is missing.  This allows transactions to be updated instead of errored and refunded.

Reviewer 6: I think a second paragraph outlining *when* the sender should be able to use this endpoint would be helpful. Should anchors implement the endpoint so that it will always fail if not in `pending_info_update` state or should the sender be allowed to update eagerly?

(Not sure how realistic that scenario is in the real world, but at least technically this edge case seems feasible)

Author: Added so that if the sender tries to update when the receiver doesn't allow it it should error
